# Learn Morse code by means of "training" audio files, with voice cues I am
learning CW and "mind copying" does not yet come easy to me. In order to
exercise and train, I have created a simple bash script (under macOs) to
generate single mp3 audio files containing random Morse characters followed by
an audio cue, spoken by a synthetic voice. In this way, I can immediately test
whether or not I copied correctly.

I am grateful to the Reddit user /u/Km6jur for the inspiration: he manually
stitched together individual audio files (generated by specific websites) for
the very same purpose. The idea behind my project instead was to avoid
laborious procedures and make the entire process automated and fast.  In
principle, one could quickly create a series of training files to listen while
commuting, driving, walking.

This works as a bash script, under macOs. If you are knowledgeable with the
command line and with scripting, you should be able to port this script to
other OS.

Three steps are required: (1) generating voice cues, (2) generating CW audio
files, and (3) stitching everything together in the right sequence.  On macOs,
I found how to take care of (1) and programmatically generate individual mp3
files for the synthetic voice cues (i.e. by the system command "say"). Perhaps
[http://espeak.sourceforge.net] might be a good replacement if you are on
Windows or Linux. For (2), I installed ebook2cw
([https://fkurz.net/ham/ebook2cw.html]) and placed its executable in the very
same working folder of my bash script. I used this software to generate the CW
individual audio segments.  Finally, for (3), I employed another command line
sox program (SOund eXchange: universal sound sample translator;
[http://sox.sourceforge.net]).

Let me sum up: launching this bash script from the command prompt of a
Terminal.app window of macOs, generates a single "exercise" mp3 file, composed
of N random "cw trials" (single letters, in this example; but replace - where
suggested in the code below - randomChar by randomCharPairs if you want to
generate pairs of letters), each followed by a voice cue.

You can change the individual CW characters speed (WPM) and their "spacing"
(FPM).  Acting on the last variable also changes the time interval before
hearing the voice cue - giving one the time to comfortably pronounce (mentally
or aloud) which letter(s) just played.

Having one or more additional "blank" mp3 files (for the future), with desired
durations, could make this interval arbitrarily controlled in a better way. It
should also be possible to add prosigns and punctuations, in a very simple way
(but it would require hacks to the voice synthesis part).
